friends here we're going to discuss about waste model operating system model,
which is very,
very important whenever if you're going toe automate your tasks are server side because the
ways model using this way,
it's morning.
You can work or interact with your operating system.
See whenever If you're able to interact with your operating system,
you can automate some tasks like creating that it really moving,
changing your territory,
knowing your territory right on many more.
So that's why this is very,
very important on Just to get confidence on your ways model myself,
I'm dividing this model.
As for parts that is simply ways and where's that part,
then waste our system on in ways not walk.
That means I want to explain this waste model with step by step.
So in this video,
we're going to see some simple operations with your ways model.
Right?
See,
this is a model right where it's model.
That means using this Ways model,
you can work with your Windows operating systems as well as UNIX like systems like Let me
take Buddy,
a simple variable from your waist model.
You know,
model is always consist off some functions and variables,
right are simply what you consist of.
Some operations.
One of the operation is ways dot Separator.
What is this way is not separator.
See if I take some Windows operating system part right,
let me take this spot.
Did.
Slash is called warriors to separate that on your windows.
Let me take You are UNIX systems.
So no,
these are different Slash,
right?
This is slash.
Is this operator for UNIX like systems?
No.
If you want to set some what separated you need to set manually based on your operating
system.
Python will set it.
Suppose let me enter into my python terminal.
And you know you know what?
If you want to use ways modern,
you hardly import your ways,
right?
And then to see list off your waist.
Ah,
model operations simply.
You can run the air off ways.
So these all are the operations with your ways.
But I'm going to divide this into four parts and I'm going to explain that step by step.
Right.
So you know,
that guy's these all are like some of the some of them are functions and some of them are
variables.
If you want to know which is a function which is a variable.
You had to go with help.
If you press sender right,
you're going to get your ways model information with the functions and then some data.
Right?
So if you want to see,
you can go through that.
I'm not going with that.
Let me simply print on your Windows operating system.
Where is not separated.
You're getting slash.
Same way.
Let me go with your UNIX like systems.
I'm going to undergo my Pitre internal on my UNIX system.
That Islamic system let me import ways first.
Then I am printing ways.
Dots,
Operator.
Right automatically.
Based on your operating system,
Python is finding No,
these the different slash,
right?
Fine,
No.
Let us assume that that is a gym that I have a some simple directory called Let me take on
my desktop.
Okay.
I'm going to create some directory new territory like height.
Then I'm going to create one more directory,
One more directory.
Let me create it simply.
I'm going to create like ah,
I will take new.
Fine.
No,
let me take this part.
So parties always a string guys,
if you go with anywhere,
right parties are resisting Let me take parties This one I am starting into some variable
First I will take high This is my path like Okay,
you're getting some head up Then let me take new also see why e anybody to take apart your
bite is giving some error But if I take on your next like systems,
right?
Ah let me take party cause too Home issue to user Right now it's taking perfectly the same
thing Let me take different parts injured off this one Let me take some u f then in that
let me take some fight on videos Something like that moat taking that he's Noida.
Why you are getting an error whenever If your are sending a part to some variable not only
variable Even if you try to print your party will get another See that The reason is guys
you know in your pipe and your some special characters like slash and slash t slash are I
slash we on then slash u is a unicorn,
right?
That's why you are aware that special case purpose you have to provide two slashes in your
pipe and not see that there is no problem by taking in this way.
So this this,
the problem is with you were only Windows operating system.
Not with your UNIX like systems,
because in UNIX like systems,
the part separated this one.
But Windows is the part separated on,
you know slash and is the special character slash out of the special characters last year
with some unicorn?
That's why that's why whenever,
if you're providing apart on your Windows operating systems,
always whether it is having some special characters are not,
try to provide in slough.
Single Slash Just try to pull a two slashes by providing to Slash is there is no problem
with your windows,
but if you don't provide,
sometimes you will get an Arab.
If you don't provide two slashes in your path,
sometimes there is a chance to get another.
That's why just toe are wide and a even by mistake to all radio.
Another try to take always two slices in your part.
That is the good practice.
Just remember this point.
That's fine.
Now what is the next operation?
Where's dot get CWD guys to know your current working directory on Windows,
you are to run city comin on your UNIX 300 beautifully command.
But enough running this one on this one based on your operating system just to go and run
this it respect you off your operating system.
Python will take care on W the current working directory.
See that I am going to take fast windows.
Let me print.
Let me print ways dot Get cwd See that you're getting some part.
Let me go and run it on the world.
Unique says mom ways dot Get cwd I can also send this out put into some variable Saudi How
given some extra parent assists right?
Are let me take current working directory variable.
I cannot sign ways dot get cwd and then I can print that CWD No problem not to she Now you
no need to worry about your operating system generally to get your current working verity
on Windows er to run city comin on your UNIX like systems the order and PWD command.
But if you go with bite on you don't worry about which operating system you're using to get
your current territory.
I think we'll take care there.
The only thing you have to remember where is that get Setiabudi.
That's it,
then.
Ways not changed that It Lee,
let me do one thing as off.
No,
you are under this location.
See?
Users Automation.
Now I want to move into a different location.
Then simply run,
you know script also You can use this where his daughter changed at a tree.
Guys,
you're probably party to reach location You want to move Body is always a string And
remember that you are working on windows.
You are to provide two slashes in your part.
Okay?
How do we have providing?
ST Patrick,
let me remove this automation Previously you are under this location Now I am moving into
this location with help of the syntax.
No See that?
What is the current location?
Where you how using?
Get Setiabudi not to Same thing.
You can do it on your inaccessible right?
Let me do it.
At least this one on your next like systems.
So I want to move with his daughter.
Change that It three just I want to move into home location now See that where you are not
to.
So there is.
Make sure that while working with UNIX like systems known don't provide any type of double
slashes in your path,
but even knows you're to provide it,
right?
Fine.
See?
Again To list some files on windows,
you had to use the air common on planets.
We are to use a less common.
But he should have that.
Simply You can use ways,
daughter.
Listen,
territories right,
Let me run it on my Lennox.
At least Cindy condone it.
Only were.
We know,
says will.
Print wears door list.
That increase.
See the output,
right?
Are ways I will do.
One thing weighs.
Don't change that a tree.
I want to movinto whom you see two user.
So in this location,
I want to list so you can move on and then you can list are basically you can do one thing
.
Let me do it.
Ways door,
brain.
Well,
yes dot list directory.
You can also provide part for which location you need to list out your values.
I mean,
files and directories using in this way.
I think I need a broader and more parentheses.
Fine.
See that?
See where is not listed?
Directory is going toe.
Take a part or if you don't blow it apart,
it will take your current location as a part on it.
Released the in the current location.
Whatever the files and doctors are there on output is always at least make sure that what
good is always a list.
You don't remember this because sometimes unit toe.
Use this or put right.
Fine.
So ways not least territory without part with the part.
Then where's dot Make verity See?
You can use this just to create order territory.
Maybe on windows are units you can practice with your windows as well.
In case I am doing as off No.
One Lennox.
What?
You can do it.
Same thing on Windows.
Husband.
See as off.
No,
in the current location.
First,
let me check.
What are the files and directories are there with help off ways dot List that it,
please.
So,
current location.
No need to provide part.
Yes,
I know.
What I'm doing is wears dot magnolia tree.
I'm going to create Suppose not in Red Electric.
What happened?
Maybe who we are under home location.
Right home.
I don't know.
Permission for that.
Let me movinto my home.
It was easy to use their home.
Where's dot change directory then through to home the road home.
I don't know permissions in that location.
That's why I had to enter into my location.
Easy to user,
then.
Here,
I can make a flower it recall.
Suppose anything Not in the right.
No waste dot list directories,
sir.
Previously,
we ran ways that lister to this location.
See the list of files under to see hope.
Now,
see that you have somewhere.
Not in the previous.
You are not having this.
You're Amir and June toe the 19.
But between June until the 1900 we got just know we created that will help operators dark,
make their all right.
Fine.
And make sure that gays whenever if you're providing aid,
directly name.
That is also a string.
You are to ride inside off the quotation find the next one is where's dot Make directories
and then part.
That means if it is in the current location,
you can use words dot magda tree,
but like a silly if you want to create,
I mean support.
I assume that you are in somewhere home.
Is you to use that in this part?
You how now I want to create some X rays er in that x rated I want to create the X.
So arcade time I want to create X wiser now than in the TX reconsidered.
I want to create this part.
Then at that time,
your takeaways don't make direct priests see that If I take simply where's dot Make that
three.
Suppose I want to create under you to me I want to create exquisite and then export right?
It's not possible.
But if I take ways dot Make this one night poise dot Make that it please models.
After that,
Under you,
they mean I want to create X razor on.
Then in that X I want to create right now,
just list ways door list directory.
You are you I mean,
see the result,
right?
Not to otherwise come out here unless you tell me now,
Rick Astley,
you can see I think using you three command.
See that?
Sorry.
Maybe three is not there.
Let me install it.
So,
um installed three command so that you can see the casali three.
You to me.
See that inside you To me You get exposure inside that the x So,
Rick Absolutely.
If you want to create you have to use ways.
Don't make directories.
No,
To remove some part.
You can use ways not removed right and then becomes truly if you want to remove.
I mean,
just know we created reconciliate right under your give me X ray j dinner that ux No.
If you want to clear the X our reconciliate this exquisite under your enemy,
then you have to use ways don't removed at a tree.
Then you are part what is always history.
Then he can also create some directly using simply ways not remove directory.
Right.
So these are some of these simple your waist operations along with that,
if you want to rename some filing right ways door rename source location,
destination location both must be a string we just played.
Then why does not anyone which is very,
very important case See,
Let me run it on my common line.
E and we comer,
you're getting some anyone mint variable values off your operating system,
right?
No.
Same things.
You can get it if you tell your fight on as well.
I mean,
your windows are Lennox operating system and new Norment variables.
You can get it with the help off ways dot Get envy drawn.
See that put women get simply sorry.
Where is not a new dawn?
Yeah,
Where?
His daughter.
He and we I and you don't What happened?
Let me ticket read.
We are a B C d e he Oh,
sorry.
It's not.
Yeah,
this is a variable,
right?
Envy long See,
that would put we're getting some in your mouth variable information,
right?
So simply print ways Door e and we I are we in and we don't not So you're you're able to
get your anyone went of variable values off your operating system using ways,
not anyone.
Right,
then.
Fine.
What is the user?
You ready?
You know,
you have a You ready for your each and every user on your operating systems,
right?
With me on it,
you 80 off this study,
i d.
We're going to get you a day off your user 500 right?
And grew by the 500 hours off.
No,
right.
See?
Let me get it from my python import ways.
Ways Door get you I d user i d 500 ways door get Do you i d group you I d what is that?
Get the weighty Let me see the operation so that it will be clear for me.
Get you weighty.
Get where he's get your way to get you Ready processor,
You can get it right.
I want to get group I d get groups.
You get G 80.
So what I did I did,
I think get do you already know waste dark,
get you i g 80 group i d not right then p 80 process i d What is dark?
Get B I d but torrential process I d like Yeah,
So there's these are the some simple basic waste operations,
Right?
So,
irrespective off your operating systems,
if you want to get some details off your opening systems if you want to do some tasks like
clearing that it really moving that it re changing your part,
right?
Are getting your can work.
Apparently,
it is pretty off your per operating system.
See,
we told your bite on If you want to run support changed at a tree.
Commands are different based on your operating system.
But if you go to fight on,
no need to worry about your operating system's.
Just use this syntax is so that you were fighting will take care based on your operating
systems on This is guys.
This is a variable.
Don't use this.
Apprentices here.
What is not anyone?
Fine.
Look,
it is Thank you for watching this video.